>> Jem Young: What is a firewall?
Don't look at the definition yet.
What is a firewall?
You've probably heard the term before.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: It's network security
infrastructure that either allows or
blocks requests.
>> Jem Young: Yeah.
Sam that you say?
>> Sam: No,
it's a perimeter security technique, so
you either allow requests in or out
depending on how they're originating and
what port they're on and
what the protocol is.
>> Jem Young: Yeah,
what she said, more verbose.
I like it, you can never be too
verbose when you're defining things.
A firewall, the phrase comes from the
actual physical device called a firewall,
your car has a firewall.
So between the engine and
where you sit in your car,
that's what's known as a firewall.
So if the engine gets on fire,
the fire won't spread into the engine.
Or it will slow down enough building have
firewalls so that if there is a fire it
doesn't prevent things completely, it just
slows it down enough so you can fix it.
And that's what a firewall does.
They are not invulnerable,
there's always ways around them cuz
everybody's running a firewall now.
But people still get hacked.
But it's enough to slow people down and
deter people.
I'll use the Cisco definition, and
it's pretty much what everybody said.
It's a network secure device that monitors
incoming and outgoing network traffic and
it decides whether or not to block that
traffic based on certain frequencies,
there's a certain set of standards.
There is software firewalls and
there's hardware firewalls.
Generally most people
are running our consumer grade.
We're all running software firewalls.
Our Mac OS X has a firewall built
in Windows has firewall built in.
It's because we don't wanna open
all of our ports to everybody.
Because if you do that, it doesn't
matter if your like, I'm using SSH and
there's nothing else my
system worth stealing.
There could be
a vulnerability in there and
it's just narrowing that attack surface.
And an image of a firewall.
I like that.
>> Jem Young: So let's run nmap
because I talked about ports earlier.
An nmap is a port scanner and
what it does is it can run over an entire
range of IP addresses and
it just checks for open ports.
So first thing we're gonna do
is we're gonna install nmap.
>> Jem Young: Sudo apt install nmap
if it's not already installed.
>> Jem Young: So sudo apt install
>> Jem Young: And I'm gonna grab
the IP address of my server.
So, it's here.
Copy that.
>> Sam: You intending that we run this
locally against our server remotely or
from the server.
>> Jem Young: You could run on the server,
you can run it from not your server.
It actually doesn't matter in this case.
But running it yeah, running it locally
you should know where your ports are.
But it's just a good visualization.
>> Jem Young: Yes and Sam is right where
we're on our server running against our
own server.
You can log out of your server and
run against your server and
the results will be the same.
>> Jem Young: And right now you're
probably seeing something along that
you should see actually exactly this.
You have port 22 open, that's SSH.
So, that's allows us to log in and
out our server.
We port 80 which is our http server.
And then we have port 3000 because
it's open by default when we
started our express server.
Now let's run nmap with sV to
get a little bit more detail.
So nmap
>> Jem Young: And
this is gonna take a little bit more time.
The sV command is gonna give us more
detail about what exact processes
are running on those and
services are running on those ports.
And it might take
a second ago.
So, port 22 is pretty
pretty much always SSH.
It's the default 48 windows HTTP.
For 3000 was a random port we chose
just for our express middle ware.
But running this open source command
allows me to port scan an IP address.
But not only that, it tells me the exact
software and version that they're running.
So why is that useful?
Or why that dangerous?
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: it's very easy to
look up known vulnerabilities and
start trying to get through.
>> Jem Young: Precisely, if there
was a known exploit for NGINX 1.14.
I can find that out really, really easily.
And then you say like, no one will know
if I haven't patched my NGINX version.
They do,
people are running at port all the time.
It takes very little CPU resources now to
run a port scan over the entire Internet,
and people are doing this constantly.
So if you have a vulnerability,
eventually, people will find it and
they will exploit it.
>> Jem Young: And what nmap won't show
is they won't show all the close ports.
They only gonna show the open ports but
you can scan for closed ports.
It's not really much of a point for
that as well.